> Javascript is the only language that can run in a browser.Javascript is a high-level object oriented scripting language.
  Javascript builds on top of html.It was created by Bernard Eich at Netscape in 1995. 

* Syntax- Like Grammar, rules for how each programming language is written.
* High-Level Programming Language- enables programmer to write programs that are more or less independent of a particular type of computer.
                                   Such languages are considered high-level because they are closer to human languages and further
                                   from machine languages.At the beginning you dont need to worry about how to allocate/re-allocate
                                   memory.
* Low-Level Programming Language- require little interpretation by the computer. This makes machine code fast compared to other programming languages.
                                  Low-level languages gives programmers more control over data storage, memory, and computer hardware. 
                                  It’s typically used to write kernel or driver software. It wouldn’t be used to write web applications or games. 
* Object Oriented Programming Language- a paradigm of programming in which you write code so that your code can reflect real world objects and scenarios
                                        such as people, person, events etc. This is really important because in enterprise level applications when you are 
                                        building applications for companies the common language that you use are going to be descibe these things in programming.
* Scripting Language- it was developed in order to write and to be written and be executed by the browser.scripting languages are executed by some other programs
                      not by the operating system itself.
                                                   
> Javascript has been loaded within HTML. sole purpose of manipulating web pages, adding content removing,content animating things,changing
  the style etc..  

> There are mainly 3 ways to write Javascript;
    . In-Line- the code you are writing is completely embeded in html. some small bit of code that only needs to run on a particular time or associated to
               a particular html element.

    . Script Tag- just as an html there is a style tag in which you can write css. Script tags allow you to write javascript code,when the browser sees the
                  script tag, it will take anything written inside the script tag 

    . Script File- similar to script tag, you can write script inside a file, give it .js extension which is a javascript file and you can embed it inside a browser.

> (;) is optional in an ending of a code, but it is recommended to have it as a standard/enterprise point of view.

> // single line comment

  /* 
      multi-line comment 
  */

> var = keyword used for storing variable

> "user strict";   --> to strictly check for any javascript syntax error, as javascript is a very relaxed language(optional to use strict)

>