> CSP - Clod service Provider (Aws, Azure, GCP..) and we are Cloud Service Clients

> ISP - Internet Service Provider (Airtel, Jio, AT&T...)

> Data center tiers refer to a standardized methodology used to define the reliability, availability, and uptime of a data center facility. 
  The tiers are defined by the Uptime Institute, a global data center authority, and are used to classify data centers based on their 
  infrastructure design and capacity to meet specific uptime requirements.The tier classification system helps organizations select 
  data center facilities that align with their uptime requirements and IT service delivery needs.

  Tier 1: This is the most basic level of data center infrastructure, with a single path for power and cooling, and no redundant components.
          A Tier 1 data center provides approximately 99.671% availability, with a maximum of 28.8 hours of downtime per year.

  Tier 2: A Tier 2 data center has some redundant components and backup power and cooling systems, providing approximately 99.741% availability, with a maximum of 22 hours of downtime per year.

  Tier 3: A Tier 3 data center has multiple paths for power and cooling, with redundant components and backup power and cooling systems. 
          It provides approximately 99.982% availability, with a maximum of 1.6 hours of downtime per year.

  Tier 4: This is the highest level of data center infrastructure, with multiple paths for power and cooling, fully redundant components, and backup power and cooling systems. 
          A Tier 4 data center provides approximately 99.995% availability, with a maximum of 26.3 minutes of downtime per year.

> Colocation data centers are facilities that offer space, power, cooling, and physical security for businesses to store their IT infrastructure, servers, and networking equipment. These data centers typically provide a secure, reliable, and high-performance environment for businesses to run their mission-critical applications and store their data.
  Colocation data centers are typically owned and operated by third-party providers who specialize in providing data center services to businesses. These providers offer businesses the ability to rent space and power within their facilities, allowing businesses to avoid the capital expenditures associated with building and maintaining their own data centers.

  In a colocation data center, businesses have access to high-speed internet connections, redundant power supplies, backup generators, and advanced security measures, such as biometric access controls, video surveillance, and 24/7 on-site security personnel. This ensures that businesses can operate their IT infrastructure with maximum uptime, availability, and security.
  Overall, colocation data centers provide businesses with a cost-effective and scalable solution for their data center needs, allowing them to focus on their core business while outsourcing the management of their IT infrastructure to experienced providers.

> Type 1 and Type 2 are two different types of virtualization technologies used in computing.

Type 1 virtualization, also known as bare-metal virtualization, involves running a hypervisor directly on the host machine's hardware. The hypervisor is a software layer that allows multiple virtual machines (VMs) to run on top of the hardware. Type 1 virtualization provides high performance and security because the VMs have direct access to the hardware resources, such as CPU, memory, and storage. Examples of Type 1 hypervisors include VMware ESXi, Microsoft Hyper-V, and Citrix XenServer

Type 2 virtualization, also known as hosted virtualization, involves running a hypervisor on top of a host operating system, such as Windows or Linux. The host operating system manages the hardware resources, and the hypervisor provides virtualization capabilities to the guest operating systems running on top of it. Type 2 virtualization is often used for desktop virtualization or for running multiple instances of a different operating system on a single machine. Examples of Type 2 hypervisors include Oracle VirtualBox, VMware Workstation, and Parallels Desktop.

In summary, Type 1 virtualization provides higher performance and security because it runs directly on the hardware, while Type 2 virtualization is typically used for desktop virtualization or running multiple instances of a different operating system on a single machine.

> CapEx and OpEx are two different types of expenses that businesses incur during their operations.

CapEx, or capital expenditures, refers to expenses incurred by a business to acquire, upgrade, or maintain long-term assets, such as buildings, equipment, or technology. CapEx expenses are usually one-time investments that are expected to generate benefits over a long period of time. Examples of CapEx expenses include purchasing a new server, building a new factory, or acquiring a new piece of machinery.

OpEx, or operating expenses, refers to expenses incurred by a business to operate and maintain its day-to-day operations. OpEx expenses are typically recurring and ongoing, such as salaries, rent, utilities, and supplies. Examples of OpEx expenses include employee salaries, rent payments, utility bills, and office supplies.

The main difference between CapEx and OpEx is that CapEx represents a long-term investment in the business, while OpEx represents the ongoing expenses required to keep the business running 
In summary, CapEx and OpEx are both important expenses for businesses, but they represent different types of investments. CapEx expenses are long-term investments in the business, while OpEx expenses are ongoing expenses required to keep the business running.

> Horizontal scaling and vertical scaling are two different methods of increasing the capacity and performance of a computer system.

Horizontal scaling, also known as scale-out, involves adding more machines or servers to a system to increase its capacity and performance. This means that multiple machines are added to a network, and the work is distributed among them to increase processing power. Horizontal scaling is generally more cost-effective than vertical scaling because it involves adding more low-cost machines to the system instead of investing in a single high-end machine. Horizontal scaling is commonly used in cloud computing environments and distributed systems.
Vertical scaling, also known as scale-up, involves increasing the resources of a single machine or server to increase its capacity and performance. This means upgrading the existing machine's hardware components, such as CPU, memory, or storage, to handle more workloads. Vertical scaling is typically more expensive than horizontal scaling because it requires purchasing more expensive hardware components. Vertical scaling is commonly used in traditional computing environments where a single machine is responsible for handling all the workloads.
In summary, horizontal scaling involves adding more machines to a system to increase its capacity and performance, while vertical scaling involves increasing the resources of a single machine or server to handle more workloads. The choice between horizontal and vertical scaling depends on the specific needs and requirements of the system, such as cost, scalability, and performance.

> SaaS, or Software as a Service, is a cloud computing service model where a third-party provider delivers software applications over the internet. Instead of installing and running software on individual computers or servers, users can access the software through a web browser or mobile app, usually on a subscription basis.

SaaS providers typically offer a wide range of applications, including productivity tools, customer relationship management (CRM), enterprise resource planning (ERP), and human resources management (HRM), among others.
Azure trainer  to  Everyone 12:57 PM
Some benefits of SaaS include:

Reduced upfront costs: SaaS eliminates the need for businesses to purchase and maintain expensive software licenses, hardware, and infrastructure.

Scalability: SaaS applications can be easily scaled up or down to meet the changing needs of businesses, without the need for additional hardware or software.

Access from anywhere: SaaS applications can be accessed from anywhere with an internet connection, making it easy for remote teams to collaborate.

Automatic updates: SaaS providers typically handle software updates and maintenance, ensuring that users have access to the latest features and security updates.

Lower IT overhead: With SaaS, businesses do not need to employ dedicated IT staff to manage and maintain software and infrastructure, reducing overhead costs.

In summary, SaaS is a cloud computing service model that provides access to software applications over the internet on a subscription basis. It offers several benefits, including reduced upfront costs, scalability
==============================
IaaS, or Infrastructure as a Service, is a cloud computing service model where a third-party provider delivers virtualized computing resources over the internet. IaaS provides businesses with access to scalable computing resources, including servers, storage, networking, and operating systems, without the need to purchase and maintain their own physical infrastructure.
IaaS providers typically offer a range of services, including virtual machines, load balancers, databases, and storage services, among others. Users can configure and manage these resources through a web-based dashboard or API.
Some benefits of IaaS include:

Reduced infrastructure costs: IaaS eliminates the need to purchase and maintain physical infrastructure, reducing costs for businesses.

Scalability: IaaS resources can be easily scaled up or down to meet changing business needs, without the need for additional hardware or software.

Access to advanced technologies: IaaS providers typically offer access to advanced technologies, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning, which may be difficult or expensive for businesses to implement on their own.

Flexibility: IaaS allows businesses to choose the resources they need, including operating systems, databases, and other services, providing flexibility in building and deploying applications.

Disaster recovery: IaaS providers typically offer built-in disaster recovery and backup services, providing businesses with a reliable and secure way to store and recover their data.
In summary, IaaS is a cloud computing service model that provides virtualized computing resources over the internet, including servers, storage, networking, and operating systems. It offers several benefits, including reduced infrastructure costs, scalability, access to advanced technologies, flexibility, and built-in disaster recovery.
======================

> XaaS, or Everything as a Service, is a cloud computing service model that refers to the delivery of any IT service over the internet. XaaS encompasses a range of service models, including Software as a Service (SaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), among others.
  XaaS provides businesses with the flexibility to choose the level of service they require, whether it be software applications, development platforms, computing resources, or other IT services. Users can access these services through a web-based interface or API, without the need to invest in physical infrastructure or software licenses.

> Some benefits of XaaS include:

Flexibility: XaaS provides businesses with the flexibility to choose the level of service they require, based on their needs and budget.

Scalability: XaaS services can be easily scaled up or down to meet changing business needs, without the need for additional hardware or software.

Reduced costs: XaaS eliminates the need for businesses to invest in physical infrastructure or software licenses, reducing costs and improving ROI.

Access to advanced technologies: XaaS providers typically offer access to advanced technologies, such as artificial intelligence, machine learning, and blockchain, which may be difficult or expensive for businesses to implement on their own.

Reduced maintenance: XaaS providers typically handle software updates, maintenance, and security, freeing up IT staff to focus on other business priorities.

In summary, XaaS is a cloud computing service model that provides businesses with access to any IT service over the internet, based on their needs and budget. It offers several benefits, including flexibility, scalability, reduced costs, access to advanced technologies, and reduced maintenance.
========================

> Hybrid cloud refers to a type of cloud computing in which an organization uses a combination of private and public cloud resources to host their IT infrastructure and applications. The two clouds are typically connected through a secure network, allowing data and applications to be seamlessly transferred between the two environments.
Hybrid cloud is often used by organizations that need to balance the benefits of public cloud, such as scalability and cost-efficiency, with the control, customization, and security of a private cloud. For example, an organization might use a private cloud for sensitive or confidential data and applications, while using a public cloud for non-sensitive workloads that require greater scalability or cost efficiency.
=========================
Multicloud refers to a strategy where an organization uses multiple public cloud providers, such as Amazon Web Services, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud Platform, to host their IT infrastructure and applications.
With multicloud, an organization can leverage the strengths of each cloud provider, such as specialized services, regional availability, and pricing models, to optimize their IT infrastructure and workloads. For example, an organization might use one cloud provider for running a specific application, another for hosting a database, and a third for disaster recovery and backup.

> A private browser window or incognito browser mode is a feature found in most web browsers that allows users to browse the internet without saving any browsing history, cookies, or other browsing data on the local device. When using a private browser window or incognito mode, the browser does not store any information about the websites visited, searches made, or forms filled out during the browsing session=================
Azure trainer  to  Everyone 3:17 PM
 Firefox : Cttrl - Shift + P
	• Chrome : Cttrl - Shift + N
Or Go to rightside and Press Three do
Azure trainer  to  Everyone 3:17 PM
Private browsing can be useful for a variety of reasons, such as when using a public or shared computer, when accessing sensitive information, or when searching for gifts or surprise presents. However, it is important to note that private browsing does not provide complete privacy or security, as internet service providers, websites, and other entities may still be able to track a user's browsing activity or access their data. Therefore, additional security measures, such as using a virtual private network (VPN) or encryption, may be necessary for more sensitive or confidential browsing activitie

> Service Health in Azure is a feature that provides customers with a centralized view of the health and status of their Azure services and resources. Service Health allows customers to monitor and receive notifications for service issues, planned maintenance, and health advisories that may impact their Azure resources.

Service Health provides different types of notifications, including:

Service issues: These are unexpected problems that affect the availability or performance of Azure services and resources, and they are typically resolved automatically or with assistance from Microsoft support.
Planned maintenance: These are updates or maintenance activities that are planned in advance and may require some downtime or disruption to the Azure services and resources.
Health advisories: These are non-service impacting issues or changes that may require action or attention from customers to maintain the health and security of their Azure resources.

> Azure Support Plans are paid support offerings from Microsoft that provide customers with access to technical support, resources, and expertise to help them manage and optimize their Azure environment. There are four types of Azure Support Plans:

Basic: This is the entry-level support plan that provides 24/7 access to Azure customer support for critical issues, as well as online resources and self-help tools.

Developer: This support plan is designed for developers and provides access to technical support for non-production environments, as well as resources and tools for building and testing Azure applications.

Standard: This is the most popular support plan that provides 24/7 access to technical support for all Azure services, as well as resources for optimizing and managing Azure environments.

Professional Direct: This is a high-end support plan that provides direct access to a team of Azure technical experts, as well as proactive guidance and support for managing and optimizing complex Azure environmen
Each support plan offers different levels of support, response times, and service level agreements (SLAs) for different types of issues and scenarios. Customers can choose the support plan that best fits their needs and budget, and can also purchase additional support services, such as advanced support for specific Azure services or workloads, or onsite support for critical issues.

> Azure SLA stands for Azure Service Level Agreement, which is a commitment from Microsoft to provide a certain level of uptime and performance for its Azure services. The Azure SLA guarantees that Microsoft will provide a minimum level of availability for Azure services, and if this minimum level of availability is not met, customers may be eligible for service credits or refunds.

> Azure Marketplace is a digital marketplace created by Microsoft that allows users to discover, try, and deploy software and services that are built on or integrate with Microsoft Azure. The Marketplace provides a wide variety of solutions, including software as a service (SaaS) apps, virtual machine images, APIs, and connectors, which can be used to enhance and extend Azure services.
  Users can browse the Azure Marketplace to find and purchase solutions that meet their specific business needs, such as data analytics, security, networking, AI, and machine learning. Once a solution is purchased, users can deploy it directly into their Azure subscription and start using it immediately.
  The Azure Marketplace also provides a platform for software vendors and service providers to showcase and monetize their solutions. Vendors can publish their solutions to the Marketplace and reach a global audience of Azure customers. They can also offer trials and demos of their solutions, and manage their billing and subscriptions through the Marketplace.

  Overall, the Azure Marketplace is a valuable resource for businesses and developers looking to accelerate their digital transformation with ready-to-use solutions that integrate with Microsoft Azure.

> Azure Monitor is a monitoring and management solution offered by Microsoft Azure that allows users to gain visibility into the performance and health of their applications, services, and infrastructure running on Azure.
  Azure Monitor provides a centralized platform for collecting, analyzing, and visualizing telemetry data, such as metrics, logs, and events, from various sources across Azure resources and third-party applications. This allows users to identify and diagnose issues, monitor resource usage, and optimize performance and availability.

> Azure Monitor offers a range of features and capabilities, including:

Metrics: Collects and displays performance data about Azure resources and third-party applications.

Logs: Collects and analyzes log data from various sources, such as virtual machines, containers, and applications.

Alerts: Monitors metrics and logs and sends notifications when defined thresholds or conditions are met.

Application Insights: A separate service within Azure Monitor that provides application performance monitoring and diagnostics.

> An Azure subscription is a logical container that enables users to provision and use Azure services and resources. An Azure subscription is associated with a unique ID, billing information, and access control, and it allows users to manage and organize their Azure resources, track usage and spending, and configure security and compliance policies.

 When a user signs up for an Azure account, they are automatically assigned a default subscription, which is a pay-as-you-go subscription with a spending limit. Users can create additional subscriptions within the same Azure account, each with its own billing and access control.

> Azure has usage quotas and limits in place to ensure that users do not exceed certain resource usage thresholds and to prevent abuse or misuse of Azure services. These quotas and limits vary depending on the Azure service, the subscription type, and the region in which the resources are deployed.

Here are some examples of usage quotas and limits in Azure:

Virtual Machine (VM) quotas: Azure imposes quotas on the number of VMs that can be deployed in a subscription, as well as the number of VM cores, VM size, and VM disk storage. These quotas can be viewed and managed through the Azure portal.

Storage quotas: Azure imposes quotas on the amount of storage that can be used for different storage services, such as Blob storage, File storage, and Table storage. These quotas can be viewed and managed through the Azure portal.

Network quotas: Azure imposes quotas on the number of virtual networks, subnets, public IP addresses, and network security groups that can be deployed in a subscription. These quotas can be 

> An Azure subscription is a logical container that enables users to provision and use Azure services and resources. An Azure subscription is associated with a unique ID, billing information, and access control, and it allows users to manage and organize their Azure resources, track usage and spending, and configure security and compliance policies.

When a user signs up for an Azure account, they are automatically assigned a default subscription, which is a pay-as-you-go subscription with a spending limit. Users can create additional subscriptions within the same Azure account, each with its own billing and access control.

> Azure subscriptions come with different service limits and quotas, which define the maximum number of resources that can be created in a subscription and the maximum usage of certain Azure services. Users can view and manage these limits and quotas through the Azure portal or Azure CLI.

Azure offers several types of subscriptions, including:

Free: This subscription provides a limited set of Azure services for free, allowing users to explore and experiment with Azure without incurring any charges.

Pay-As-You-Go: This subscription charges users based on their actual usage of Azure resources, such as virtual machines, storage, and network.

Enterprise Agreement: This subscription is designed for large organizations that need to manage multiple Azure subscriptions and have custom billing and support requirements.

Microsoft Partner Network: This subscription is designed for Microsoft partners who want to develop, test, and deploy solutions on Azure for their customers.

Visual Studio: This subscription provide
Visual Studio: This subscription provides developers with access to a range of Azure services for development and testing purposes.

Overall, an Azure subscription is a fundamental element of Azure that enables users to access and use Azure services and resources. Users can choose the subscription type that best fits their needs and manage their subscriptions through the Azure portal, Azure CLI, or APIs.

> n Azure region is a geographical location in which Azure data centers are located. Each Azure region contains one or more data centers that are connected through a dedicated low-latency network. Azure regions are designed to provide users with high availability, low latency, and data residency options for their Azure resources.

Azure currently has more than 60 regions worldwide, distributed across different continents and countries. Each region is assigned a unique identifier, such as "East US" or "Southeast Asia," and is associated with a specific set of Azure services and capabilities.

When a user creates an Azure resource, such as a virtual machine or a storage account, they can choose the region in which the resource will be deployed. This choice of region can affect the performance, availability, and data residency of the resource.
Azure trainer  to  Everyone 4:53 PM
Azure regions are designed to be highly available and resilient, with multiple data centers within a region that are designed to provide redundancy and failover capabilities. Users can deploy their resources across multiple regions to achieve additional levels of resiliency and disaster recovery.

In addition to Azure regions, Azure also offers Azure Availability Zones, which are physically separate data centers within an Azure region that are designed to provide additional levels of resiliency and fault tolerance. Users can choose to deploy their resources in specific availability zones to achieve higher levels of availability and protection against data center failures.

Overall, Azure regions and availability zones provide users with flexible and resilient options for deploying their Azure resources based on their performance, availability, and data residency requirements.

Azure Cost Management is a tool provided by Microsoft that helps users monitor, manage, and optimize their Azure spending. Azure Cost Management provides users with visibility into their Azure usage and spending, enabling them to track their costs and identify areas for optimization.
Cost analysis: Azure Cost Management enables users to analyze their Azure spending by resource, service, or subscription. Users can view their costs over time, identify cost trends, and compare their spending across different periods.

Budgets and alerts: Azure Cost Management allows users to set budget thresholds for their Azure spending and receive alerts when their spending exceeds these thresholds. Users can set alerts based on different criteria, such as subscription, resource group, or service.

> Cost optimization recommendations: Azure Cost Management provides users with recommendations for optimizing their Azure spending based on their usage patterns and spending history. These recommendations can help users identify cost savings opportunities and reduce their overall Azure spending.

> The Azure pricing calculator is a tool provided by Microsoft that helps users estimate the costs of using Azure services. The pricing calculator allows users to select the Azure services they plan to use, specify their usage patterns and requirements, and calculate the estimated monthly costs based on the selected options.

> Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) is a financial estimate that takes into account all the costs associated with owning and operating an IT infrastructure, including hardware, software, maintenance, and support costs. TCO can be a useful metric for comparing the costs of different IT solutions, such as on-premises infrastructure versus cloud-based infrastructure.

In the case of Azure, calculating TCO involves estimating the costs of deploying and managing Azure resources compared to on-premises infrastructure. Microsoft provides a TCO calculator for Azure that allows users to compare the costs of running workloads on Azure versus on-premises infrastructure.

The Azure TCO calculator takes into account several factors, such as server and storage hardware costs, data center costs, networking costs, power and cooling costs, and IT staff costs. Users can input their specific workload requirements, such as CPU, memory, and storage, and the calculator will provide a cost estimate for running the workload on Azure versu

> Accessing through MS Azure through Poweshell;
  . Open Powershell, must be above 5 version -> $PSVersionTable.PSVersion 
  . to install,PS GAllery -> Install-Module -Name Az --> Y
> Azure PowerShell is a command-line tool used to manage Azure resources. It allows you to automate and manage your Azure environment using PowerShell commands. Here are some common Azure PowerShell commands:

  Connect-AzAccount

  Get-AzResource

 > Azure CLI (Command-Line Interface) is a cross-platform command-line tool used to manage Azure resources. It provides a way to automate and manage Azure resources using commands. Here are some common Azure CLI commands:

   az login

> Azure Bash is a command-line tool used to manage Azure resources. It allows you to automate and manage your Azure environment using Bash commands.

> · One of the preferred method
	· App is available for Android and IOS
	· All subscription you can see 
	· All resource management
	· VM can be started or restarted
	· Check Critical Alerts and Health Issues
	· You will be able to command and script
	· Able to access bash and Powershell
Means - All resources can be managed from Phone

> Azure Compute:-
  Azure Compute is a service in Microsoft Azure that provides virtual computing resources to run and manage applications. It includes virtual machines, container services, and serverless computing options.
  Virtual Machines:
Azure Virtual Machines allow you to deploy and manage virtual machines in the cloud. This provides a way to run your own applications in the cloud without having to purchase and maintain physical hardware.

Azure Container Service:
Azure Container Service provides a way to run and manage Docker containers on Azure. This allows you to deploy and manage containerized applications easily.

Azure Functions:
Azure Functions is a serverless computing service that allows you to run code in response to events or triggers. It allows you to run your code without having to worry about server infrastructure.

Azure Batch:
Azure Batch provides a way to run large-scale parallel and batch computing jobs in the cloud. It allows you to scale up or down to meet the demands of your workload.

Azure Service Fabric:
Azure Service Fabric is a distributed systems platform that makes it easy to build and manage scalable and reliable microservices applications.

Azure Kubernetes Service:
Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) is a fully managed Kubernetes container orchestration service that allows you to deploy and manage containerized applications at scale.

Overall, Azure Compute provides a flexible and scalable platform for running your
applications in the cloud. It allows you to choose the computing resources that best fit your workload and provides a range of options for managing and scaling your applications.

> Lift & Shift:
 Lift and shift is a migration strategy that involves moving existing applications to the cloud without making any significant changes to the application architecture. It is a quick and easy way to migrate applications to the cloud, but it may not take full advantage of the cloud's capabilities.

 On the other hand, shift and modernize is a migration strategy that involves re-architecting or re-engineering the application to take advantage of cloud-native features and capabilities. This approach allows you to optimize the application for the cloud and take full advantage of the benefits of cloud computing.

> In the context of Azure, lift and shift can be achieved using services such as Azure Migrate or Azure Site Recovery. These services can help you to migrate your on-premises virtual machines to Azure with minimal changes. Once the virtual machines are migrated, you can start taking advantage of the scalability, availability, and reliability features of Azure.

Shift and modernize can be achieved using services such as Azure App Service, Azure Functions, Azure Kubernetes Service, and Azure Cosmos DB. These services provide cloud-native capabilities that can help you to re-architect your application to take advantage of the cloud.
Overall, both lift and shift and shift and modernize approaches have their own advantages and disadvantages. The choice of migration strategy depends on the specific needs and goals of the organization.

> VM creation Reference:
  New-AzVm `
    -ResourceGroupName 'myResourceGroup' `
    -Name 'myVM' `
    -Location 'East US' `
    -VirtualNetworkName 'myVnet' `
    -SubnetName 'mySubnet' `
    -SecurityGroupName 'myNetworkSecurityGroup' `
    -PublicIpAddressName 'myPublicIpAddress' `
    -OpenPorts 80,3389

> Here are some best practices for naming cloud resources:

Use lowercase letters: Use lowercase letters for all resource names to avoid any potential case-sensitivity issues.

Use hyphens to separate words: Use hyphens to separate words in resource names to improve readability and avoid confusion. Avoid using underscores or spaces in resource names.

Be descriptive: Use descriptive names that clearly indicate the purpose of the resource. Avoid using generic names such as "server1" or "app1" that do not provide any context.

Use a consistent naming convention: Use a consistent naming convention across all resources to make it easier to identify related resources. For example, you can use a prefix to identify the type of resource, such as "vm-" for virtual machines or "db-" for databases.

Keep names short and simple: Use short and simple names that are easy to remember and type. Avoid using long and complex names that are difficult to read and remember.

> Avoid using abbreviations or acronyms: Avoid using abbreviations or acronyms that may not be familiar to everyone in the organization. If you must use an abbreviation, make sure it is well-known and commonly used.

By following these naming conventions, you can make it easier to manage and maintain your cloud resources, and avoid potential conflicts or confusion.

> Availability: The degree to which a system or service is operational and accessible when required. In Azure, availability is measured by Service Level Agreements (SLAs) that specify the guaranteed uptime for various services.

Fault Tolerance (FT): The ability of a system or service to continue operating in the event of a failure. In Azure, fault tolerance can be achieved through various mechanisms such as redundancy, failover, and load balancing.

HA:

Disaster Recovery (DR):

> When creating a username in Azure, there are certain restrictions and limitations that must be followed. Here are some possible reasons why a username may not be allowed in Azure:

Invalid characters: Azure usernames can only contain letters, numbers, underscores (_), and hyphens (-). Special characters such as #, @, $, and % are not allowed.

Reserved words: Azure has a list of reserved words that cannot be used as usernames. For example, "admin", "root", and "default" are all reserved words that cannot be used.

Too short or too long: Azure usernames must be between 3 and 64 characters long. If a username is too short or too long, it will not be allowed.

Already taken: If someone else has already registered the username in Azure, it will not be available for you to use.

If you encounter issues with a specific username, try using a different username that meets the Azure requirements and is not already in use.

> Azure Resource Mover is a tool provided by Microsoft Azure that allows you to move Azure resources from one Azure region or resource group to another. This tool simplifies the process of resource migration by handling dependencies and resolving any conflicts that may arise during the move.

> Azure Disks:
  In Microsoft Azure, virtual machines (VMs) have several types of disks that are used for different purposes. Here are some of the common disk types in Azure:

OS disk (C drive): This is the disk where the operating system is installed. It is also used to store temporary files and system files. By default, the OS disk is created as a managed disk, which provides features such as automatic backups and snapshots.

Data disk (D drive): This is an additional disk that can be added to a VM to store data files or application files. Data disks are also created as managed disks and can be attached or detached from a VM as needed.

Temporary disk: This is a temporary storage disk that is created when a VM is deployed in Azure. It is used to store temporary data such as page files, swap files, and temporary files created by applications. The size and performance of the temporary disk depend on the VM size that is selected.

> In Microsoft Azure, the OS disk capacity of a virtual machine (VM) depends on the size of the VM that is selected. When you create a VM, you can choose from a variety of sizes that have different amounts of CPU, memory, and storage capacity.

Here are some of the common VM sizes and their corresponding OS disk sizes:

Standard_A0 - 30 GB
Standard_A2 - 135 GB
Standard_A4 - 285 GB
Standard_D2_v2 - 100 GB
Standard_D4_v2 - 200 GB
Standard_D8_v2 - 400 GB
Note that the OS disk size can vary depending on the operating system that is installed. For example, Windows Server 2012 requires a minimum of 30 GB for the OS disk, whereas Windows Server 2016 requires a minimum of 32 GB.

> IPV4 and IPv6 are both internet protocol versions that provide unique addresses to devices on the internet. However, there are several differences between the two versions. Here are some of the key differences:

Address length: IPv4 uses 32-bit addresses, allowing for about 4.3 billion unique addresses. On the other hand, IPv6 uses 128-bit addresses, providing for about 340 undecillion unique addresses.

Address format: IPv4 addresses are written in decimal notation and separated by periods, like this: 192.168.0.1. In contrast, IPv6 addresses are written in hexadecimal notation and separated by colons, like this: 2001:0db8:85a3:0000:0000:8a2e:0370:7334.

Security: IPv6 provides better security features than IPv4, such as built-in encryption, which can help prevent attacks like man-in-the-middle attacks.

Quality of Service: IPv6 includes support for Quality of Service (QoS) which allows prioritization of traffic based on specific criteria, such as voice or video traffic.

1> Lab:--

Objective: The objective of this lab exercise is to create a virtual machine (VM) on Azure cloud platform and connect to it using Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP).

Requirements:

Access to an Azure cloud platform account.
A computer or laptop with an RDP client installed, like Microsoft Remote Desktop for Windows or macOS.
Basic knowledge of Azure cloud platform, virtual machines, and RDP.

Steps:

Login to your Azure account and navigate to the Azure portal.
Click on the "Virtual machines" option in the left-hand side menu and then click the "+ Add" button to create a new virtual machine.
Fill out the basic information for your VM such as the name, region, and operating system. Make sure to select the "Windows Server" option for the operating system.
Choose the appropriate VM size and set the username and password for the VM. Make sure to remember these credentials as they will be used to connect to the VM later.
Select the appropriate networking options such as virtual network and subnet.
Review and confirm the VM configuration settings and click on the "Create" button to create the VM.
Wait for the VM to be created. This may take several minutes.
Once the VM is created, go to the virtual machine overview page and copy the public IP address.
On your local computer, open the RDP client and enter the public IP address of the VM as the "Computer" or "Server" name.
Click "Connect" and enter the username and password for the VM that you set earlier.
Click "OK" to connect to the VM using RDP.
Congratulations! You have successfully created a virtual machine on Azure and connected to it using RDP

2>Lab:--

Objective: The objective of this lab exercise is to test your knowledge and understanding of the cost management tool for Azure.

Requirements:

Access to an Azure cloud platform account.
Basic knowledge of Azure cloud platform and cost management tool.
Questions:

How can you view the cost of resources in Azure?
What are the different cost analysis options available in Azure?
How can you set up a budget in Azure?
What is a spending limit in Azure and how can you set it up?
How can you create a cost alert in Azure?
How can you view the cost trend of resources over time in Azure?
How can you identify cost anomalies in Azure and take corrective action?
How can you optimize the cost of your resources in Azure?

Ans:- You can view the cost of resources in Azure by going to the "Cost Analysis" option in the left-hand side menu of the Azure portal.
The different cost analysis options available in Azure are Cost by Resource, Cost by Subscription, Cost by Resource Group, and Cost by Service.
You can set up a budget in Azure by going to the "Cost Management + Billing" option in the left-hand side menu of the Azure portal and selecting the "Budgets" option.
A spending limit is a maximum amount of money that you are willing to spend on Azure services in a specific billing period. You can set it up by going to the "Cost Management + Billing" option in the left-hand side menu of the Azure portal and selecting the "Spending limit" option.
You can create a cost alert in Azure by going to the "Cost Management + Billing" option in the left-hand side menu of the Azure portal and selecting the "Cost alerts" option.
You can view the cost trend of resources over time in Azure by going to the "Cost Analysis" option in the left-hand side menu of the Azure portal and selecting the "Trend" option.
You can identify cost anomalies in Azure by going to the "Cost Analysis" option in the left-hand side menu of the Azure portal and selecting the "Analyze" option. From there, you can filter the cost data by different parameters and identify any anomalies. To take corrective action, you can optimize your resources or adjust your spending limit or budget.
You can optimize the cost of your resources in Azure by using tools like Azure Advisor or Azure Cost Management. These tools can provide recommendations on how to optimize your resources and save money.

> Objective: The objective of this lab exercise is to test your knowledge and understanding of Azure Support plans.

Requirements:

Access to an Azure cloud platform account.
Basic knowledge of Azure cloud platform and Azure Support plans.
Questions:

What is an Azure Support plan and what are the different types of support plans available in Azure?
What are the benefits of an Azure Support plan?
How can you purchase an Azure Support plan?
How can you open a support request in Azure?
What are the different severity levels of a support request in Azure and what is the response time for each severity level?
How can you track the status of a support request in Azure?
What is Azure Service Health and how can it help you monitor the health of Azure services?
How can you get technical guidance and best practices for Azure services?

> Objective: The objective of this lab exercise is to test your knowledge and understanding of Azure subscriptions for students.

Requirements:

Access to an Azure cloud platform account.
Basic knowledge of Azure cloud platform and Azure subscriptions.
Questions:

What is an Azure subscription and why is it important for students?
How can you create an Azure subscription for students?
What are the benefits of an Azure for Students subscription?
What are the limitations of an Azure for Students subscription?
How can you manage an Azure subscription as a student?
What are the best practices for managing an Azure subscription for students?

> Objective: The objective of this lab exercise is to test your knowledge and understanding of Azure VM restart and shutdown.

Requirements:

Access to an Azure cloud platform account.
Basic knowledge of Azure cloud platform and Azure virtual machines.
Questions:

How can you restart an Azure virtual machine?
What are the different restart options available for an Azure virtual machine?
How can you schedule a restart for an Azure virtual machine?
What is the difference between a soft shutdown and a hard shutdown for an Azure virtual machine?
How can you shut down an Azure virtual machine?
What are the different shutdown options available for an Azure virtual machine?
How can you schedule a shutdown for an Azure virtual machine?

> Title: Adding a New Disk to a Virtual Machine in Azure Portal

Objective: In this lab, students will learn how to add a new disk to a virtual machine in Azure Portal.

Prerequisites:

An active Azure subscription
A virtual machine created in Azure
Basic knowledge of Azure Portal
Tasks:

Login to Azure Portal
Navigate to the Virtual Machines service in Azure Portal
Select the virtual machine to which you want to add the disk
In the virtual machine's page, click on the Disks option from the left-hand menu
Click on the "+Add data disk" button at the top of the page
In the Add data disk blade, configure the following settings:
Name: Give a name to the new disk
Disk type: Select the disk type (Standard HDD, Standard SSD, Premium SSD)
Account type: Select the storage account type
Size (GiB): Specify the size of the new disk in GB
Lun: Specify the logical unit number (LUN) of the disk
Click on the Create button to create the new disk
Once the disk is created, go back to the virtual machine's page and click on the Connect button at the top of the page to RDP into the virtual

> Recovering a deleted Azure VM can be done through the Azure portal or the Azure CLI. Here are the steps:

Method 1: Azure portal
Log in to the Azure portal (https://portal.azure.com/).
Click on "Virtual machines" in the left-hand menu.
Click on "Deleted" at the top of the page.
Select the deleted VM that you want to recover.
Click on "Restore" at the top of the page.
Choose a target resource group and virtual network for the restored VM.
Click "OK" to start the restore process.
Objective: To learn how to delete an Azure virtual machine (VM) using the Azure Portal.

Instructions:

Log in to the Azure Portal and navigate to the virtual machine you want to delete.
Stop the virtual machine if it is running.
Click on the "Delete" button on the top menu bar.
In the confirmation page, review the information about the VM that will be deleted, and then click on the "Delete" button again to confirm.
Wait for the VM to be deleted. You can monitor the progress of the deletion process from the notifications icon in the Azure Portal.
Lab Question:

What is the first step to delete an Azure virtual machine using the Azure Portal?
What is the importance of stopping the virtual machine before deleting it?
What happens when you click on the "Delete" button in the Azure Portal?
Can you recover a deleted virtual machine in Azure? If yes, how?
What are some best practices for managing virtual machines in Azure to avoid accidental deletion?

> Networking
 -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 . Azure provides a wide range of networking capabilities, including virtual networks, load balancers, virtual private networks (VPNs), and network security groups. 
   It also offers various services to help you manage and monitor your network, such as Azure Network Watcher and Azure Traffic Manager. Additionally, Azure offers integration with other networking solutions, such as ExpressRoute for private connectivity to Azure and Azure Firewall to provide additional network security.

 . Point-to-Site VPN: This type of VPN is used to connect individual computers or devices to an Azure VNet. It allows remote users to securely access resources in an Azure VNet from anywhere with an internet connection. This is particularly useful for remote workers or contractors who need to access company resources securely.

 . Site-to-Site VPN: This type of VPN is used to connect your on-premises network to an Azure Virtual Network (VNet) over the internet. It allows you to extend your network to the cloud and provides a secure connection between your on-premises infrastructure and your Azure resources.

Azure ExpressRoute is a dedicated private connection between your on-premises infrastructure and Azure datacenters. It provides a fast, reliable, and secure connection with higher bandwidths and lower latencies than typical internet connections.

ExpressRoute is particularly useful for scenarios where you need to transfer large amounts of data, such as for data replication or backup, or for running applications that require low latency and high throughput. It also provides a more secure connection, as data is not routed over the public internet.

In Azure, there are several types of routes that can be configured to control network traffic:

System routes: These are pre-configured routes that are automatically added to your routing table when you create a subnet or virtual network. They include routes for the local network, default routes, and routes to Azure services.

User-defined routes: These are custom routes that you can add to your routing table to control traffic flow within your virtual network. You can specify the next hop type (such as virtual appliance or virtual network gateway) and the destination for the route.

BGP routes: If you are using ExpressRoute, you can configure Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) routes to exchange routing information between your on-premises network and Azure. BGP allows you to dynamically learn and advertise routes between your network and Azure.
