> What is a Collection Classes?
  . Collection Classes are specialized data storage and retrieval classes 
  . In addition to stacks and lists, these classes also provide functionality for hash tables
  . Collection classes are useful for a variety of tasks, including dynamic memory allocation for elements
    and index-based access to a list of things 

> Types of Collections:
  . Generic Collection - It is a class that provides type safety without requiring derivation from basic
                         collection type and the implementation of type specific members.The collection 
                         classes are found in the namespace system.collections.generics .Internally generic
                         collection store elements in arrays of their respective types i.e; it can only have
                         ,if the collection is of n-type then it can only have elements of n-type.

                         Several Generic Collection example:- List, Dictionary, Sorted List, Stack, Queue 

  . Non-Generic Collection - It is a specialized data storage and retrieval classes that handle stacks, Queues,list
                             and hash tables. The system.collection namespace contains the non-generated collection
                             classes. Non-generic collection classes store elements and object areas internally allowing
                             them to hold any type of data. so, basically same collection can have different type of 
                             databses.

                             Several Non-Generic Collection example:- ArrayList, Hash Table,Sorted List, Stack, Queue

> Using, Generic Collections is peferable to using non-Generic Collections because they are more efficient
  and less prone to exceptions, by dispalying a compile-time error.

> Generic collections types are found in the "System.Collections.Generic" namespace while Non-Generic Collections
  types are found in the "Collections" namespace.

> The "System.Collections.Specialized" namespace contains certain specialised collections that are optimized
  for a specific type of data type.

> The collection class supports duplicate elements and accepts null as a valid value for reference types.    