> Reference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QVqEPXVy_Y0

Q> What is Guidewire?

A> Guidewire Software, Inc. (GWRE) is a provider of software and data services to the Property and Casualty insurance (P&C) industry. 
   The company's products cover the three primary operational functions of an insurance provider: Policy, Billings and Claims (these all 3 makes up the Guidewire Insurance Suite)

   . Digital product development and management

   . Supply chain management

   . Field service management

   . Customer experience management (CEM)

   . Business process management

   . Customer Analytics

*** Other Insurance Products : Duckcreek, Majesco, Portals(individual)

Q> What is P&C insurance?

A> Property and Casualty insurance is insurance on homes, cars and business, rather than health or life insurance

Q> What are the basic products for Guidewire?

A> 1. Guidewire Policy Center (PC) - To create,modify,cancel and renew policies
   2. Guidewire Claims Center (CC) - process claims to provide to claimants when covered loss occurs
                                     (for payments/premiums made by client and in case of claims due to accident then company uses claims center)
   3. Guidewire Billing Center (BC) - Bill policyholders for Policies, Commissions to Producers (for submission and processing of claims)

Q> What is Guidewire Suite?

A> . PC, BC and CC is a web-based Underwriting and policy administration system designed for personal and commercial line carriers in the P&C industry

   . Policy Center - delivers convenient access to agents, streamlines producer relationships, and improves Underwriting risk assessment. (Agents, Underwriters
                     , Claims Staff, Auditors etc.)

   . Claim Center - is a trusted claims management solution that helps you resolve claims faster, exceed customer expectations, and ignite innovation. (CSR, Agent,
                    Adjusters, Supervisors etc.)
   
   . Billing Center - is an insurance billing system that features prebuilt models and flexible architecture to support existing and future policyholder transactions.

   . Carriers are able to quickly respond to changing business requirements and grow the business in ways current legacy systems cannot

   . Integrations are easily enabled with in Products such as Policy Center, Billing and Claim Center, Contact Manager. 

Q> What is Guidewire Policy center?

A> . Policy Center is Guidewire's insurance policy administration system (PAS)

   . It supports the whole life insurance life cycle, from new business through renewal, policy modification, and termination

   . In addition, it offers integrated customer management, document generating, analytics, and reporting solutions.

   . Provide Insurance

   . Process Payments

   . Generate Reports

   . Manage your business

   . Easily Customize

   . Quick to use

   . Secure

Q> What is the process of Guidewire Policy Center ?

A> . Product Design- Create a policy by designing and launching 
   . Submission Processing - streamline the intake process for insurance submissions
   . Risk Analysis - Leverage embedded analytics to make more accurate decisions about each risk 
   . Underwriting and Rating - extracting all credit history, claim history, employment history, criminal history. 
                               And then checking, whether they would be able to pay premium. Based on the rating the premium would be decided
   . Quote, Bind, & Issue - policy premium quotation. 
   . Informed Renewal - policy renewal process
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------
   And then, in case of any accident then they are submitting claims to us we follow Guidewire claims and Billing center

Q> What is Guidewire Claims Center?

A> . Resolve claims faster, deliver accurate claim outcomes, exceed customer expectations, and ignite innovation with the P&C industry's most trusted claims management
     software

   . No matter the complexity, ClaimCenter drives your operational efficiency and enables you to personally support customers through challenges

   . It is a complete software system developed to help file property and Casualty insurance claims

   . It allows insurers to simplify their operations and enhance customer service by offering a single system to handle the claims process,
     from first loss notification to closing

   . Flow is as below;

     . Claim Intake - Digital claims through portal or mobile app or paper based claims 
     . Rules-based assignment - efficiently add one or more claims professionals with rule-based segmentation
     . Effective Evaluation - make smart, data driven decisions throughout the claims lifecycle by leveraging best practices
     . Reserve and Pay - utilize robust financial management, granular reserves, advance payment capabilities 
     . Powerful Negotiation - equip claims team with powerful tools to litigate matters on claims and negotiations 
     . Final Closure - Dynamic business rules ensure all appropriate steps are taken before claim closure  


Q> What is  Guidewire Billing Center?

A> . Better insurance billing software fosters revenue growth and enhances relationships, helping you boost collections and loyalty
     through guaranteed, regular touchpoints
   . Billing Center is an insurance billing system that features prebuilt models and flexible architecture to support existing and future 
     policyholder transactions
   . It is a complete billing and receivables solution that offers insurers a centralized platform for managing the entire billing and 
     collection process
   . It automates the billing process, from policy start to payment posting, and provides a complete set of features to increase client satisfaction
     and the insurer's bottom line
   . In addition, it offers robust reporting capabilities for accounts receivable, cash flow, and customer service

Q> Explain Guidewire Project Lifecycle?

A> . Pre-Inception/Inception - Inception planning, define business rules, infrastructure, Project governance, Trainings, Planning sprint, Estimates (PO,DEV,QA,PM,BA)

   . Development - Done by Dev and BA. Define Develop and Unit Test. Demo based on sprint scope.

   . Stabilization - Done by QA. Perform testing (System/E2E, UAT, Performance), Demo.

   . Deployment - Done by Dev - Start with Pilot Deployment till Full Deployment, Migrate Data.

   . Support and Success - Customer Success Program, BAU. Maintenance Upgrades, Learn and Revise done by PO.

Q> What LOB does Guidewire supports?

A> LOB (Line of Business) is a general term that describes the related product or services a business or manufacturer offers.

   Guidewire support below LOB's.

   . Business Auto
   . Business Owners (BOP)
   . Commercial Package (includes Commercial Property, Inland Marine, and General Liability)
   . Commercial Property
   . General Liability
   . Inland Marine
   . Personal Auto
   . Worker's Compensation

Q> Type of Testing in Guidewire?

A> . Functional Testing (PC)
      . Product Model
      . Form Testing
      . UW Assignments and Rules
      . Validation Errors
      . Premium Validations
      . Ratings using Rate Factors
      . Guidewire Upgrade
      . Activities

   . Configuration Testing - configuring the system based on the Product Model
   
   . Integration Testing
      . External Systems - API Testing to verify the response
      . Internal Systems
   
   . Regression Testing

   . Smoke Testing

   . Performance Testing - Need Basis

   . Automation Testing - Need Basis





















