> Youtube Link- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lpk7VpGqkKw

> Devops Procedure:
    1. Plan the Procedure
    2. Write codes for functionality.
    3. Make the codes executable. 
    4. Run Tests
    5. Run software on client system.
    6. Monitor the working of the software and give feedback.

> Devops is a mindset/combination of two practices. Dev refers to "Development" and Ops refer to "Operations".
  Its a culture that brings these two teams together the Development team writes codes for new products security
  updates and Bug fixes, while the operation team looks after the server and makes sure that the deployments happen more
  reliably. The main focus of devops is towards integrating these two teams to improve collaboration and increase
  productivity by automating the entire process of software development. 
   
> First, In Development Phase- The first step is to put down a plan that includes modules and the algorithms
  to be used in the software . Once, the plan is finalized it is developed with tools like Git, as git helps to 
  store all the codes and different versions of those codes. This is called the version control system. This code
  is now fetched and made executable in the next stage and that is called the build phase. The phase uses tools like
  Gradle (or) Maven . After, the code is made executable it is supposed to be tested. The next stage test the code
  for any bugs and the most famous tools used in this phase is Selenium. Once, the testing is done Deployment comes
  into consideration, this is where the work of the Operations team begins. In the Deployment, phase the product is deployed
  and this deployed product is continuously configured to the desired state. The tools that could be used to automate those
  phases are Ansible(or)Puppet(or)Docker. The productfrom here is continuously monitored for any failures and the most common tool
  that makes it possible is Negios. The feedback of all the monitoring is sent back to the planning phase. This process is repeated 
  in continuous cycles and this happens until a satisfactory result is reached. This completes the entire devops cycle, i.e; the process
  of automation from the planning phase to the monitoring phase. This is referred to as the core of devops lifecycle, the integration phase.
  Jenkins another devops tool is known for sending the code for build and test and if this code passes the test, it is further deployed and 
  monitored.  

> 

>

